a lot of people asked me to respond to
the one the only nikka kado avocado i
think some of the people asked me to
respond are sincerely interested in what
i have to say about the controversy and
some of the people asking me to respond
just want to hear me say that nick is an
idiot
well here's your door prize nick is a
idiot i did watch and i did
enjoy the video bye vegan gains
responded at Naqada avocado if you
haven't seen the original comments from
Nick skip it it's boring as hell unless
you really get some kind of erotic
thrill of watching a grown man break
down weeping on camera over some
um vegan gains managed to make
an interesting and entertaining and
informative video in response to that
and that's an art form and Richard I got
love for you I'm amazed you had the
patience energy to do that I don't there
are maybe just two points I think
Richard did not address in that video
that I would like to address here and
now point one is the argument from
design now argument from design in
formal academic philosophy we normally
talk about in relation to the existence
of God people who fallaciously try to
reason that we can prove that God exists
because there's design inherent in the
universe but actually it's part of a
much broader problem in reasoning in
reasoning itself which you might call
the teleological fallacy or just T Elyot
teleological thinking let's leave the
fallacy out of it I mean fallacy fallacy
is such a judgmental word teleological
thinking is a problem because you're
looking at the end point of something
and presuming that it reflects an
intention or a design so we can make
statements I mean I remember I read a
great scientific article about why is
cannibalism so unhealthy for humans
whereas many other mammals can engage in
cannibalism without adverse health
effects and it went through what the
chemical factors are and basically the
accidents of biology the accent
of evolution as it happens human
physiology cannot cope with cannibalism
well at all it's terrible for us it's
really dangerous for us and there were
other mammals who can does that reflect
something moral in the universes that
reflect a design or a plan or a God's
intention or anything else nope that's
just how it worked out and if
cannibalism was the healthiest thing for
you imaginable we'd still have the same
ethical questions and ethical problems
with engaging a cannibalism we just have
to say it doesn't doesn't cause any side
effects as it happens we are very very
poorly evolved to cope with eating our
fellow human beings and we are quite
poorly evolved biologically to cope with
a diet based on meat and cheese etc but
that is happenstance
nikka kado I mean his whole breakdown
his whole conniption there's a word you
don't hear every day conniption this is
like 1930s style think old old comic
books like from the 30s spare me your
conniption a a conniption fit that's
slang from the 30s old detective movies
he's having a conniption all right nikka
kados hole on camera connection he gets
so worked up by saying are we or are we
not designed to eat meat
we can even say this no are we or not
are we are we not meant to eat meat but
although life is meaningful there's a
real sense in which there is no meaning
in life in the sense that you can't look
at the ends of something and think
teleology Clee because this exists it is
meant to be there's a meaning or there's
an intention buying the habits to ask
the fact that cheese is unhealthy as
hell for thoughts if bacon were the
healthiest thing on earth we'd still
have the same arguments going on about
veganism but as it happens it's not and
you know this problem again it's not
limited when you say argument from
design teleological fallacy most people
will think you're talking about religion
Christianity argues with existence of
God it's not limited to that this
problem all the time I hear left-wingers
I hear so-called an T capital
making arguments based on the premise
that capitalism is designed to blank
that capitalism is intentionally
designed to have this or that evil
consequence it's designed to have this
or that weakness it's a design of this
or that
reliance and even though it's a subtle
difference it's actually really
important if you're gonna engage in a
critique of the capitalist system not to
start with that delusion or not to drive
towards proving to it but to look at
capitalism as a bunch of social
assumptions that came about unplanned
that came about tell Mel nobody sat down
and came up with a perfect design are
you to a utopia and blueprint for what a
capitalist society was supposed to be
and a great comparison that two is by
the way nobody ever sat down and came up
with a perfect design for what a feudal
society is supposed to be different
social forces pushed and pulled at the
reality of life as in Europe as the
Roman Empire fell apart there was a king
called Charlemagne there were all these
wars with the Muslim world and you know
there were different socio-economic
pressures in response to which you had
the emergence of feudalism and now we
can look back retrospectively and come
up with a checklist and say okay how do
we define feudalism we can look back and
say how do we define capitalism there
are certain features and we say ok this
is a capitalist society and if it lacks
those features it would not be a
capitalist society but there's a sense
in which there is no design there is no
intention there is no system and what
it's really misleading to even think in
terms of we were meant to eat meat we
were meant to oppress the poor we were
meant to rise up in a revolution because
inequality under capitalism thought life
is meaningful but in that sense there is
no meaning in life and theological
thinking is terribly terribly misleading
whether it's in the theatre of
nutritional science or in the theatre of
economic science and you know Nick my
heart goes out to you in some ways I've
broken down weep
on camera before I think there are a lot
of reasons to break down weeping on
camera and I think it is bold and I can
respect it sharing your doubts sharing
your misgivings sharing that side of
your life via YouTube
I'm all for anybody who's keeping it
real but on another level
you know like Richard like making gains
I'm sitting there thinking damn
you're gonna weep about this nutritional
doubts about the adequacy of a vegan
diet aren't short-term they're not
something we're going to overcome ever
they're always gonna be there we're just
gonna go through a period of progress
where we switch from some of the most
naive misconceptions of veganism we
switch from people just telling you a
vegan diet doesn't have enough protein
to more and more sophisticated and
elaborate arguments we're now dealing
with people telling us there isn't
enough DHA in the vegan diet unless you
are a pregnant female there is no reason
to worry about DHA being inadequately
got pregnant females should worry early
childhood development should worry as an
adult male there is no scientific reason
for you to worry about getting up DHA
none however it's true we're progressing
from an early stage of relatively
shizune and stupid doubts of the
adequate of the adequacy the vegan diet
to more and more elaborate sophisticated
one but those doubts will be with us
always always anytime you're on a vegan
diet and you feel like crap the easiest
thought to have is maybe it's because of
my vegan diet and you know what on that
level maybe it is if you're on a diet
that consists of pork and yogurt and you
feel like crap I thought that should
come to your head is maybe I feel like
crap because I'm eating pork and yogurt
and maybe it is on that level of Bro
science of personal observation where
you're just looking in the mirror and
asking yourself how do I feel today
people are always gonna have those kind
of doubts and there are always gonna be
rumors circulating on the internet
whether it's about DHA or protein or
some crazy micronutrient or form of fat
molecule we
named for yet some new Sciences come
there are always going to be doubts
circulating about the vegan diet on some
level for each of us engaging on a vegan
diet is an experiment and the challenge
is to experiment and find a diet that
works with our lifestyle where I live
where I'm living whether you're living
in Colombia or Cambodia whether you're
living in Canada or China to find some
that works for you in terms of your
health it is hard work and in so many
ways you're throwing out the accumulated
knowledge and experience of your own
life from your childhood up to the
moment we decided become vegan and at
some extent you're throwing out the
whole cultural experience of your
parents and your grandparents going back
a thousand years if you grew up Italian
with a thousand years of Italian food
culture behind you a thousand years of
tradition then you decide to become
vegan you're throwing all that out the
challenge isn't just scientific its
cultural it's figuring how to feed
yourself in a way that feels good where
the fits with your schedule not
everybody has the time to boil beans for
several hours some people are you know
looking for a diet that's gonna fit into
a hectic work life it's gonna fit so
many things there is a level on which
veganism for each of us individually
when we start off is an experiment it's
experimental an experiment by definition
is something you undertake without
knowing whether the outcome is going to
be good or bad but I'm here to tell you
ethically environmentally ecologically
this experiment is really worth doing
and compared to any other political
movement any other social justice
movement in history of the world any
other moral cause you can support with
your time with your money with your
effort with your protest has anyone ever
asked less of you to save the planet to
make the world a better place than
becoming vegan if you want to help
refugees in Syria
I was just argued somebody on skype a
couple days ago he went there he went to
the refugee camps on the border with
Syria he was out there with the refugees
if you want to make that sacrifice
that's asking a lot short term long term
and he was learning Arabic he was
hitting the books to learn Arabic to do
kind of humanity remark huge sacrifice
it's going to change his life forever
don't about Syrian refugees in the
internet you give a
you buy that airplane ticket you enroll
in those Arabic courses you start doing
fundraising you start handing out
blankets to Syrian refugees you can do
it right now
you know what if you're going to do this
vegan thing yes there's an experimental
aspect to it
yes you are gonna suffer a little bit
compared to any other movement any other
moral cause you tell me who has suffered
less nikka kado when you wipe the tears
off your face man up and take on
that challenge we expect better of you
and you should exert better of yourself